I think stereo cameras are definitely useful,
but it really depends on
the overall sensor configuration or the other sensors that you have on the car.
If you consider depth estimation from the stereo camera,
the density of the depth map compared to
any other sensor is really high and the precision is also great in the near field.
It's just a problem in the far field and in terms of cost,
if you want to have a cheap,
high resolution depth sensor,
stereo camera in particular is the way to go.
If you compare stereo to structure from motion with a single camera,
you can basically choose,
if you have a single camera,
you can either reconstruct the 3D environment based on
your own motion or you can use
features in the static environment to estimate your own motion.
So that's the visual odometry part.
But as soon as you have dynamic objects in the scene and you're also moving yourself,
then you cannot really estimate the distance and
velocity of other traffic participants anymore.
That you can only do with stereo and I think that's why it's still very valuable.
But it really depends on how many other sensors you also have on a vehicle.
If you have a LiDAR and a RADAR who can
measure distance much more precisely and measure velocity much more precisely,
I think the benefit for stereo is decreasing.
It's still redundancy though.